Once your team is up and running,
then the process of managing or
maintaining the team
as it goes forward and
answers data science problems is a
critical role for a data science manager.
So the first thing that you would often
have with every member of your team,
ideally, is individual meetings.
So this will happen particularly if you
are at the first stage of management where
you're managing just a few people.
Once your organization
gets a little bit bigger,
there'll be a hierarchical structure and
you might not necessarily meet with
every member of the team every week say.
But if you're only managing a few people,
it's a really good idea to have a standing
regular meeting where they can come and
they can present anything
that they're working on.
Things that they've accomplished,
things that they finished and so
you can sort of check them off
as things that have gotten done.
Any kind of problems that they have and
their goals for the week.
And so, individual meetings take up a lot
of time, if you spend them, well they
can be a huge advantage in the sense that
people often get stuck in data science on
something that can easily be resolved
just by having someone else look at it.
A lot of times, this has happened to me,
where I'm analyzing some dataset, and
I just get stuck on some low level detail,
and I can't quite figure it out.
And then as soon I show it to
somebody else they immediately spot,
whatever it was that was slowing me down.
So this is sort of the best and most
effective way to get people unstuck and
keep them moving.
The second thing that makes a lot of sense
to have is Data Science Team Meetings.
So that's get the whole
data science team together.
Again, this should be a regular
standing meeting that you have so
that everybody can come together and
talk about what they're working on.
So again they can share any updates
of any progress that they've made.
They can identify any problems that they
are working on, or that they're stuck on.
In particular problems that
maybe touch on different teams.
So say the data science team can't
necessarily make a data pool that
they want because
the infrastructure isn't in place,
that's a good time to communicate
with the data engineering team.
And then what are their goals?
What's the steps that they wanna take?
It's also an opportunity to sort of peer
review of the progress that's going on.
So data science teams can
make presentations or
data engineering teams
can make presentations.
Everyone else can chip in, and
make comments and sort of evaluate.
So the key here is that you need
to set it up in such a way,
that people are empowered or
able to make criticism if they need to.
They can make critical
comments about other people's
stuff without being rude or mean.
There's sort of a very fine line
to balance, and a lot of people
have difficulty with giving criticism
well or taking criticism well.
It's sort of up to the data science
team lead to make sure that,
especially when dealing with data,
to be very objective to allow people
to express their real opinions.
It's also an opportunity for you to set
team priorities and motivate people.
So, data science can
very often become a slog.
It's very hard to get all the details
right when you're doing an analysis or
setting up an infrastructure just right.
And, so
when you're sort of mired in the weeds,
it's very helpful to have somebody who can
come in and tell you the bigger picture.
Why are we doing this?
Why are we solving all these
really hard technically problems?
What's the goal that we're setting and
how do we get there?
And so that's your opportunity to sort of
motivate people, keep everybody excited,
keep everybody fresh on the problems that
you're working on at any given time.
So it's important to mix those two things.
To have individual meetings,
where each person can talk about what
is their personal issues that they need to
deal with or their own personal successes.
And also a group meeting where everybody
can kind of come together and communicate.
Your also in charge of
monitoring interactions.
So it's very common, if you sort of set
your data science team up in the way that
is sort of the most optimal.
In my opinion to have a data science
team that sits all by itself,
that talks to each other and so forth.
But then those people also in the data
science team spend some period of time
embedded in other groups.
And so they interact with those groups,
they email those other groups, and
ideally each member of your team will
be responsible for interacting with
one particular external unit of
the organization that you're dealing with.
So it's your job to kind
of keep on top of that.
It's to monitor how those interactions are
going and you can either do that actively,
by being CC'd on messages,
by being involved in the slack channel or
by going to those meetings
with the external folks.
Or you can do it sort of more passively,
sort of accept the feedback and hear it
from both the external organization and
from the person that
you've embedded there.
In either case, it's sort of up to
you to sort of monitor that and
make sure that
the communication is flowing.
That there's no break downs.
A very common thing is either for
communication to be to fast or to slow.
In a sense that if it's to slow, their not
getting enough details back and forth, and
the progress will slow down.
If it's to fast,
you might have an external unit that's
making extreme demands on data scientist.
That's very common too.
And so knowing how to sort of
modulate those sort of request and
take some of the heat for the data
sciences or data engineer that's getting
those requests is something
that is up to the data manager.
And so it's up to you to
sort of keep things running.
And so the best way to do this in my
experience is with an open door policy.
So generally it's good to have people
be able to come to you at anytime and
not just at their weekly meeting or
their regular individual meeting or
group meeting.
Have them be able to like just drop by and
ask questions so
that they can immediately get unstuck.
Again, some of these details
are things where people get stuck for
a long time on something they can easily
be solved if they talked to somebody else.
And so the best way to do that
is Is to have an open policy.
Another way is to have a policy to quickly
responding to questions via email or chat,
especially if they're sort of things
that can be resolved very quickly.
You also want to be able to
like minimize the amount of
formal meetings that people have.
I mean there needs to be a regular
meeting so you can check on progress but
you don't wanna introduce
a large number of meetings.
Data science and data engineering
require large amounts of uninterrupted,
concentrated effort.
And so introducing too many meetings
into the lives of these people
means that they'll really
slow down their work.
And so, one way to do that is by allowing
quick communication that doesn't have to
resolve into a formalized meeting.
It's also important to manage
the growth of the organization and
that's growth in a couple
of different ways.
Obviously it's growth in terms of the
number of people and how they're gonna be
managed in terms of how they can
communicate with each other and so forth.
But it's also good manage
the growth of individuals people.
Make sure that there is opportunities for
them to learn new tools.
Whether that's through giving them
access to courses online or otherwise.
Whether it's through presentations
in the group meeting,
where people present new ideas or
new tools that they've learned about so
other people can take advantage of them.
Whether its introductions
to new interactions.
So sometimes you'll be in meetings that
aren't necessarily the meetings that
your data science team is going to, but
you might identify an external group or
a person that really would make a good
connection with your data science team.
It's your job as the data science
manager to facilitate that interaction.
And then, a really critical component
of being a data science manager is, and
building a good data science team,
is identifying opportunities for
advancement for your people.
And so anytime that there's an opportunity
for your people to either get promoted or
to take on new responsibilities that will
look really good for them on their resume,
it's up to the data science manager
to sort of be on the lookout for
those opportunities.
Whether it's through new interactions.
Whether it's through
learning about new tools.
Or whether it's just ways in which they
can promote themselves both inside
the organization and externally
at conferences or at meet-ups, or
anything like that where they can actually
make more connections in their field.